# WiNDC.GMS

The Wisconsin National Data Consortium (WiNDC) creates and distributes data and models to support economic research and policy analysis. We provide data calibrated for Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) models and provide canonical models for each module. 

There are two available modules:

1. `national` - Data at the national level, coming from the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Supply/Use tables. The repository that generates the data is [WiNDCNational.jl](https://github.com/uw-windc/WiNDCNational.jl).
2. `regional` - The national data is disaggregated to the state level. The repository that generates the data is [WiNDCRegional.jl](https://github.com/uw-windc/WiNDCRegional.jl). This includes data for the 51 US states (including DC).
3. `household` - The regional data is disaggregated to the household level. The repository that generates the data is [WiNDCHousehold.jl](https://github.com/uw-windc/WiNDCHousehold.jl). This includes data for 5 household income levels (given by quintiles) and the 51 US states (including DC).


## Running the Model

To build and run the WiNDC model, first change directory to the desired module directory and run

```gams
gams build
```

This will:

1. Download the data from the WiNDC website
2. Create three variants of the data, discussed below
3. Verify that the data is balanced and consistent by running the model at the benchmark equilibrium. 

## Using the Data in Other Models

Provided are files to load each of the three versions of the data into GAMS. These can be found in the `load` directory of each module. To use the data in other models, you will need the GDX and corresponding `load` file.

The data file path can either be modified in the file itself, or via command line when running GAMS. For example, to load the BEA version of the data, you could run

```gams
gams bea_load_data.gms --data_path=path/to/household_bea.gdx
```

## Data Download via API

In each module there is a `get_data.gms` file that is used to download the data from the WiNDC website. The most recent data version (and currently only data available) is `4.2.0`. To download a different version, you can modify the `version` variable in the `get_data.gms` file, or specify it via the command line (see below).

This command will also create a directory called `data` in the current directory and download the data there. To specify a different directory, modify the `data_dir` variable in the `get_data.gms` file, or specify it via the command line (see below). 

```gams
gams get_data.gms --version=4.2.0 --data_dir=path/to/data
```

## Data Variants

The data is provided in three variants. The mappings can be found in `load/mapping.gms` file in each module. The three variants are:

1. `bea` - The data as it comes from the BEA. Sectors and commodities are given by NAICS codes, states use full names, and parameters have descriptive names. This corresponds exactly to the data generated by the packages in the [UW-WiNDC organization](https://github.com/uw-windc).
2. `WiNDC` - Sectors and commodities use WiNDC labels, states are given by their two letter abbreviations, and parameters match their WiNDC names. However, the domain of each parameter is matched to the BEA version of the data. 
3. `legacy_WiNDC` - Sectors and commodities use WiNDC labels, states are given by their two letter abbreviations, and parameters match their WiNDC names. The domain of each parameter is matched to the legacy version of the data, which was used in the original WiNDC model. This version is provided for backward compatibility with older versions of the model.

## Future Work

The `regional` module will be added soon, which is the middle step between the `national` and `household` modules. It will disaggregate the national data to the state level, but not further disaggregate to the household level.